##[--{SMAUG II}--](http://smaugmuds.github.io/smaug)

###Introduction

```
                    R E A L M S    O F    D E S P A I R  !
  ___________________________________________________________________________
 //            /                                                            \\
[|_____________\   ********   *        *   ********   *        *   *******   |]
[|   \\._.//   /  **********  **      **  **********  **      **  *********  |]
[|   (0...0)   \  **********  ***    ***  **********  ***    ***  *********  |]
[|    ).:.(    /  ***         ****  ****  ***    ***  ***    ***  ***        |]
[|    {o o}    \  *********   **********  **********  ***    ***  *** ****   |]
[|   / ' ' \   /   *********  *** ** ***  **********  ***    ***  ***  ****  |]
[|-'- /   \ -`-\         ***  ***    ***  ***    ***  ***    ***  ***   ***  |]
[|   .VxvxV.   /   *********  ***    ***  ***    ***  **********  *********  |]
[|_____________\  **********  **      **  **      **  **********  *********  |]
[|             /  *********   *        *  *        *   ********    *******   |]
 \\____________\____________________________________________________________//
    |                                                                     |
    |    --{ [S]imulated [M]edieval [A]dventure Multi[U]ser [G]ame }--    |
    |_____________________________________________________________________|
    |                                                                     |
    |                              README                                 |
    |_____________________________________________________________________|
    |                                                                     |
    |                         --{ SMAUG II }--                            |
    |_____________________________________________________________________|
   //                                                                     \\
  [|  SMAUG 2.0 © 2014-2015 Antonio Cao (@burzumishi)                      |]
  [|                                                                       |]
  [|  AFKMud Copyright 1997-2007 by Roger Libiez (Samson),                 |]
  [|  Levi Beckerson (Whir), Michael Ward (Tarl), Erik Wolfe (Dwip),       |]
  [|  Cameron Carroll (Cam), Cyberfox, Karangi, Rathian, Raine,            |]
  [|  Xorith, and Adjani.                                                  |]
  [|  All Rights Reserved. External contributions from Remcon, Quixadhal,  |]
  [|  Zarius and many others.                                              |]
  [|                                                                       |]
  [|  SMAUG 1.4 © 1994-1998 Thoric/Altrag/Blodkai/Narn/Haus/Scryn/Rennard  |]
  [|  Swordbearer/Gorog/Grishnakh/Nivek/Tricops/Fireblade/Edmond/Conran    |]
  [|                                                                       |]
  [|  Merc 2.1 Diku Mud improvments © 1992-1993 Michael Chastain, Michael  |]
  [|  Quan, and Mitchell Tse. Original Diku Mud © 1990-1991 by Sebastian   |]
  [|  Hammer, Michael Seifert, Hans Henrik St{rfeldt, Tom Madsen, Katja    |]
  [|  Nyboe. Win32 port Nick Gammon.                                       |]
   \\_____________________________________________________________________//

```

**--{[S]imulated [M]edieval [A]dventure Multi-[U]ser [G]ame}--**

**--{SMAUG II}--** is a **Merc** and **DikuMUD** derived MUD server. Its name
is a backronym inspired by the dragon **Smaug** found in **J. R. R. Tolkien's**
fiction. **--{SMAUG II}--** is a multiplayer text-based role-playing game in a
real-time virtual world, which is a type of MUD. Modern massively multiplayer
online role-playing games **(MMORPGs)** traces directly back to the MUD genre.

**--{SMAUG II}--** is an enhancenment of **SMAUG 1.8b**, this project was
started to have a source code structure which builds, installs and runs in most
modern distributed system environments. **--{SMAUG II}--** is ready to add,
enable and disable new code snippets using the **GNU Autotools** build system.
Many bug fixes and additions were made to the **SMAUG 1.8b** source code,
always trying to keep the compatibility with **SMAUG 1.8b**. All paths for data
files and directories were modified, because **--{SMAUG II}--** installation is
stored into a **LSB** directory distribution. All code is internationalized
using **GNU Gettext**, all zones, clases, races and some system files were
modified to be translated. Old "**startd**" script was replaced with **smaugd**
and **smaugd-monitor**, these scripts will start up and keep your MUD server
running. If **--{SMAUG II}--** server process fails, **smaugd-monitor** will
respawn it again. To know more about all these new changes, take a look at the
section **--{SMAUG II}-- ChangeLog**. Some new code snippets were extracted and
adapted from **AFKMud** and **SMAUGfuss**. All licenses and mentions to the
original **SMAUG** code authors are displayed in source code header files.

**SMAUG 1.8b**, is an fixed **SMAUG 1.4a** which is a heavily modified
derivative of the **Merc 2.1** distribution. **SMAUG 1.4a** is close to six
times the size of **Merc 2.1**, and has major changes to the inner workings of
the code, hence making porting of code from other Diku-derivatives non-trivial
to the non-coder. Due to the ability to edit most everything online, you will
most likely find the online help pages more informative. **SMAUG** is the base
code that runs the popular **Realms of Despair** MUD. Through the years it has
been tweaked, modified, and enhanced to become one of the most feature packed
branches of the **MERC** family of codebases.

**SMAUG** is a derivative of **Merc Diku Mud** is a **Diku Mud** with many
enhancements and contributions. It was written in 1990 and 1991 by **Sebastian
Hammer**, **Tom Madsen**, **Katja Nyboe**, **Michael Seifert**, and **Hans
Henrik StÃŠrfeldt** at **DIKU** _(Datalogisk Institut KÃžbenhavns Universitet)
at the department of computer science at the University of Copenhagen in
Copenhagen, Denmark_. Commonly referred to as simply **"Diku"**, the game was
greatly inspired by **AberMUD**, though **Diku** became one of the first
multi-usergames to become popular as a freely-available program for its
gameplay and similarity to **Dungeons & Dragons**.

**AberMUD** was the first popular open source MUD. It was named after the town
_Aberystwyth_, in which it was written. The first version was written in **B**
by **Alan Cox**, **Richard Acott**, **Jim Finnis**,and **Leon Thrane** based at
**University of Wales**, _Aberystwyth_ for an old **Honeywell** mainframe and
opened in 1987.


### Releases

**--{ SMAUG II }--** version **2.0** is HERE!

With many bugfixes as well as important and useful new code and build features.

 * **[Release 2.0](https://github.com/smaugmuds/_smaug_/releases/tag/2.0)**


#### Contents of the Release

	- src:                Source files.
	- bin:	              Init Scripts.
	- etc:                smaugd & httpd Script Config Files.
	- etc/init.d:         smaugd & httpd Init Scripts.
	- doc:                Documentation.
	- man:                Man Pages.
	- data/area/LC_ALL:   Realm Area files.
	- data/backup:        Backup Player files (initially empty).
	- data/boards:        Boards files.
	- data/building:      Building System files.
	- data/clans:         Clans files.
	- data/classes:       Classes files.
	- data/councils:      Councils files.
	- data/corpses:       Death corpses (initially empty).
	- data/deity:	    	  Realm Deities.
	- data/deleted:       Deleted Player files (initially empty).
	- data/houses:        Houses files.
	- data/gods:          God players.
	- data/mudprogs:      MUD Program files.
	- data/player:        Player files (initially empty).
	- data/system/LC_ALL: MUD Game System files.
	- data/races:	    	  Races files.
	- data/vault:	    	  Guilds Vaults
	- data/web:	    	    Web files & Online Client


#### Features

Here are just some of the features **--{SMAUG II}--** has:

	- Full featured, Command-Line Online Building (including shops, resets,
    repair shops, etc)
	- Optional, easy to use menu-based online building
	- Online building updated to Oasis OLCII
	- New Online Building features and Build Walk
	- Damageable and repairable equipment
	- MUDPrograms/scripts (mob, obj and room programs)
	- Monsters that will remember you, hunt you down, and summon you
	- Levers, switches, pull chains, buttons and traps
	- Searchable hidden objects and doors
	- More flexibility to command syntax
	- Delayed teleport rooms, tunnels
	- Clans, player killing, guilds, orders and councils
	- Revamped experience and skill/spell learning system
	- Unlimited bulletin boards that can be added online
	- Private mail and comments on players
	- Automatic daily scheduled rebooting
	- Advanced immortal hierarchy
	- Complicated monsters with stats, attacks, defenses and body parts
	- Resistances, Immunities and Susceptibilities
	- More spells, more skills, more classes, more races
	- Weapon proficiencies
	- Pipes and herb smoking
	- Full featured container commands: fill, empty, etc
	- Extra exits - ne, nw, se, sw and more -
	- Special exit flags, floorless rooms (falling)
	- More room, mob and object flags, class restricted items
	- Languages, improved string hashing code
	- All kinds of 'spelled equipment' support
	- A new flexible spell system that allows online creation and editing
	- Object grouping, items hidden under other items, layered clothing
	- The ability to dig up and bury items
	- Player corpses are saved in case of crash or reboot
	- Stable code with hundreds of bug fixes
	- A fully configurable deity system
	- Many new admin commands such: extensive ban, immhost, ipcompare & more
	- Polymorph code that can be added, edited and deleted online
	- Different prompts when you are fighting and when you are not
	- Pets saving with their owners
	- Configurable color codes online
	- Projectiles are fully supported
	- Extended bit vectors for when 32 are just not enough
	- SHA256 player passwords encryption.
	- New personalized Colors.
	- Room Mapper.
	- New Weather.
	- Time zone.
	- Holidays.
	- Server and Characters Translations.
	- Room Planes
	- Mounts and much more
	- Fixed Liquids & Mixtures.
  - Gold, Silver and Copper based economy.
  - Gold loot rate by race.
	- Banking System.
  - Undertaker.
	- Quest's masters.
  - New Classes & Races.
	- Player marriage system.
	- A Dice Game.
	- Mongoose web server with jta26 as Online MUD Web Client.

Realm Areas:
```
    +---------------------------+-------------+
    |            Area           |    Level    |
    +---------------------------+-------------+
    |   Spectral Gate           |    0 - 60   |
    |   New Darkhaven           |    0 - 60   |
    |   Darkhaven Academy       |    1 - 5    |
    |   Dwarven Daycare         |    1 - 5    |
    |   Pixie Forest            |    1 - 5    |
    |   Tullfuhrzky Manor       |    0 - 10   |
    |   Graveyard               |    5 - 10   |
    |   Haon Dor                |    5 - 10   |
    |   Miden'nir               |    5 - 15   |
    |   Unholy Grounds          |    5 - 15   |
    |   Holy Grove              |    5 - 20   |
    |   Shattered Refuge        |    5 - 20   |
    |   Dragon Exports          |    5 - 25   |
    |   Sewer                   |    5 - 30   |
    |   Dwarven Village         |   10 - 35   |
    |   Darkhaven Art Gallery   |   10 - 50   |
    |   Chapel Catacombs        |   15 - 25   |
    |   The Astral Plane        |   15 - 35   |
    |   Redferne's Residence    |   20 - 30   |
    |   Build Interface Stuff   |    0 - 60   |
    |   Gods                    |    0 - 60   |
    |   Limbo                   |    0 - 60   |
    +---------------------------+-------------+
```


#### **--{ SMAUG II }--** ChangeLog

	* Changes from **SMAUG 1.8b** to **--{SMAUG II}--**:
```
		- Moved all "KEY" definitions to "mud.h".
		- Added Quest Masters.
		- Added new Classes & Races.
		- Added Customizable Command Aliases.
		- Added Arena Challenge.
		- Added Weapon Proficency snippet and Archery.
		- Added Gold, Silver and Copper based economy.
		- Enabled Gold loot multirate by race.
		- Added Undertaker snippet (ACT_UNDERTAKER).
		- Added "Banking" code snippet.
		- Added "Marriage" code snippet.
		- Added a Dice game.
		- Added Oasis OLCII Online editor, new features and "do_buildwalk".
		- Defined new MUD default colors.
		- Adapted Room Mapper, Colors, Weather, Timezone, Holidays from AFKMud.
		- Added Mongoose web server with JTA26.jar MUD WebClient.
		- Added GNU Gettext support. Translated: Server, Areas, Races, Classes,
      Commands, Skills & Socials.
		- Required runtime data directories moved to "data".
		- Renamed "services.c" to "win32srv.c".
		- Renamed "comm.c" to "smaug.c".
		- Removed all InterMud code: "IMC2" & "ICE(D)". If you want Intermud
      support maybe you can implement I3 or any other Intermud Chat source
      snippet.
		- Fixed "Liquids & Mixtures" system, replaces old "do_drink", "do_empty" &
      "do_fill" from "misc.c" routines.
		- Fixed many bugs and redundant definitions.
		- Indented code with GNU style.
		- Init Script Daemon, Monitor and Configuration files: "smaugd.conf" &
      "smaugd" & "smaugd-monitor".
		- Updated documentation files.
		- Added "Man Page" files for "smaug" and "smaugd".
		- Conversion to "GNU Autotools" build system.
		- Added "PREFIX", "DESTDIR" & "RUNDIR" to "configure.ac", "smaug.h" and
      "mud.h".
		- "LOG_DIR" variable in "mud.h" is now obsolete and has been changed to
      "LOGDIR" in "smaug.h", all server log files will be stored to
      "$(localstatedir)/log/smaug/" system directory.
		- Installed files are now splitted in several libraries and binaries using
      "Ranlib & Libtool": "libsmaug-act.so", "libsmaug-player.so",
      "libsmaug-mudprog.so", "libsmaug-info.so", "libsmaug-realm.so", "smaug",
      "smaugd" & "smaugd-monitor".
		- Configure checks for "cc", "gcc", "g++", "(g)awk", "-ldl", "-lz",
      "-lcrypt", "-lssl", "basic C# libraries", "C# headers & functions",
      "bash", "env", "perl".
		- Configure options to include required definitions for enabling or
      disabling code snippets and flags:

			Configured --{SMAUG}-- build flags:

			 * Time Format fix:     <no>
			 * RE_EXEC fix:         <yes>
			 * Profiling flags:     <yes>
			 * Developer flags:     <no>
			 * Performance flags:   <yes>

			Configured --{SMAUG}-- MUD Server features:

			 * SMAUG 2.0:           <yes>
			 * Oasis OLC:           <yes>
			 * Oasis OLC Extras:    <yes>
			 * Buildwalk:           <yes>
			 * Billion MAX_VNUM:    <yes>
			 * Password Encryption: <yes>
			 * Request Support:     <no>
			 * Room Planes:         <yes>
			 * Who Arguments:       <no>
			 * MUD HotBoot:         <yes>
			 * New Score Tables:    <yes>
			 * Show Stance Info:    <yes>
			 * Player Bleeding:     <yes>
			 * New Colors:          <yes>
			 * New MUD Mapper:      <yes>
			 * MSSP Support:        <yes>
			 * New Weather:         <yes>
			 * Timezone:            <yes>
			 * Holidays:            <yes>
			 * Honour Code:         <yes>
			 * Player Houses:       <yes>
			 * House Mobs:          <yes>
			 * Extended Rooms:      <yes>
			 * Liquids System:      <yes>
			 * Act Comm Scramble:   <no>
			 * Undertaker:          <yes>
			 * Gold Silver Copper:  <yes>
			 * Gold Race Rate:      <yes>
			 * Bank:                <yes>
			 * Player Marry:        <yes>
			 * Dice Game:           <yes>
			 * DNS Resolver:        <yes>
			 * Web Server:          <yes>

```

#### TODO

This is a list of TODO stuff:

	- New weather system.
	- Implement MXP, MSSP & MCCP protocols.
	- More useful code snippets.

#### Supported Operating Systems

        - Linux
        - BSD
        - Solaris
        - Windows (CYGWIN)
        - MAC

### Prerequisites

These tools are required to bootstrap and configure the build system:

        - intltool
        - file
        - autoconf
        - automake
        - libtool
        - pkg-config

On Debian based systems you may install them with:

```bash
apt-get install autoconf automake libtool pkg-config intltool file
```

### Building

Compile and install the MUD server with the usual autotools workflow:

```bash
./autogen.sh && ./configure && make && make install
```


### Authors and Contributors

**--{SMAUG II}--** by **Antonio Cao** ([@burzumishi] (https://github.com/burzumishi))
Wed Jun 11 14:49:27 CEST 2014

Feel free to contribute with **--{SMAUG II}-- in GitHub**.


### Support or Contact

Having trouble with **--{SMAUG II}--**?

First, check out the documentation at **[Wiki](https://github.com/smaugmuds/_smaug_/wiki)**
or send an Issue and we'll help you sort it out.

We rewrote all of the documentation files for the **--{SMAUG II}-- Release**,
and have been keeping them up-to-date since.

Also check the **'wizhelp'**, **'help'**, **'hlist'** commands and read the
**'help'** descriptions for the individual immortal commands.

When you write us, we need to know what kind of machine you're running on. If
you can give us specific information about the problem, that helps too.

Specific information means: an **adb** or **gdb** stack trace (if you're
reporting a crash), or a **syslog** with the relevant commands logged. The
player files are ascii files dump them into your mail message too.

You can also read the Documentation in the **'doc'** directory.


### Copyright and License

**Diku Mud** is copyright (C) 1990, 1991 by Sebastian Hammer, Michael Seifert,
Hans Henrik Strfeldt, Tom Madsen, and Katja Nyboe.  Their license agreement is
in the file **'license.doc'**.

**Merc Diku Mud** is a derivative of the original **Diku Mud** and is subject
to their copyright and license agreement.  **Merc Diku Mud** contains
substantial enhancements to **Diku Mud**.  These enhancements are copyright
1992, 1993 by Michael Chastain, Michael Quan, and Mitchell Tse.  Our license
agreement is in **'license.txt'**.

The license terms boil down to this: the people who wrote this mud want due
credit for their work.

**MERC Industries** had officially disolved October 13, 1993.  **MERC 2.2** is
a compilation of various bug and typo fixes along with a few new worlds.
**MERC 2.2** also has a variable line pager, MOBPrograms, and player settable
prompt.

**SMAUG** is a derivative of the version **2.1** distribution of **Merc Diku
Mud**. **SMAUG** contains substantial enhancements to **Merc Diku Mud**,
including some features of the original **Diku Mud** that were removed by the
Merc team.

**--{SMAUG II}--** is a derivative of the original **SMAUG** and is subject to
their copyright and license agreement. **--{SMAUG II}--** contains substantial
enhancements to **SMAUG**.  These enhancements are copyright 2014-2015 by
**Antonio Cao** ([@burzumishi](https://github.com/burzumishi)) under the
**'GNU GPL v2 LICENSE'**.

**Thanks to the SMAUG Code Team!**

==============

_**--{SMAUG II}--** (c) 2014-2015 Antonio Cao (@burzumishi)_
